architect/Software Design/domain-modeling/2-anemic-model.md, before:

## Lesson 1 - Anemic User #01

We will start by creating a src/core folder and a test/core to maintain a "mirror" of the src structure inside the tests.
This will easy to test each one of one of our tests. Even though some examples may not have much to test, we will create
tests to expose fragilities of our choices when we are, for example, going after an anemic model.

We are going to create multiple versions of an anemic class, so we can see how it may evolve

### UsuarioAnemicoV1

Is very common for us to find inside libraries/frameworks documentation, an anemic modeling. Not because this is an adequate
pattern, but simply because who is writing that tutorial, has the objective of showing something else other than a rich
modeling for the examples.

We will start by defining a simple interface, with primitive types, and the only validation this code has is the types
requirements. 

And when we focus on the domain modeling, and looking after the problem we are solving, we will understand that every company
has a domain of action, clients, market, business, way of proceeding inside that business, and this is the domain, so when
we model the domain, we want to be specific and not generalist, we don't want a name attribute to simply be a string, it
should have some criteria inside the business we are working with, for more common or similar to other cases, that these
objects may be. It is certain that there will exist specific rules for that business. So when we think of creating a modeling,
we think of solving a **specific** problem of a **specific** business.

Even though in practice we don't test interfaces, here we are going to, because that mentality of testing everything is
fundamental, it is important to have inside the domain model, to have this testing culture.

With these tests we have two intentions: Other than the importance of the testing culture, they will be created in order
to expose the fragilities, after the tests, that this anemic modeling may generate.

### UsuarioAnemicoV1

After that interface was created, we will create a test for this interface

Create a `usuario` object, with all the required values.

We will first notice that even though we didn't implement any validation, that ts will give us basic errors that the
type returns, such as id not being a number, a nome being a number, and so on.

## Lesson 2 - Testing Usuario Anemico V1

We will define a usuarioValido constant with all the required properties from its interface

1. First test, will be to create a usuario by spreading all the properties from the usuarioValido, but modifying its name
to be '', and after expecting usuario.nome to be an empty string, we are able to see that this model allowed an empty `nome``

2. Second test is going to be similar to the first one, but changing the id to be negative

3. Invalid e-mail — without `at`, domain, username

4. Senha to be a single character where the business we are dealing with  requires a strong eight characters long password


Therefore, these tests were able to show in how much trouble we can get by choosing this approach. By modeling in a "poor",
"anemic" manner, with no kind of guarantee of data consistency, this means that we will have to do this in every part of
the system where a `Usuario` is used. This will make the usuario to inconsistent, and everywhere we will have to validate it
and apply the rules.

Instead of this, we could do everything in a single place what we would end up having to do in multiple different places.

With the first version, we already exposed many flaws of this model.

## Lesson 3 - Anemic User #02

The UsuarioAnemicoV2 will be a class and in its tests we are able to see that we even after creating a valid user, we are
still able to modify the attributes with invalid values such as `usuario.id = -300`.

We can also "workaround" the interface, because let's assume this scenario

We want to allow an user with undefined name. But the way we defined our interface, with required attributes, we don't
allow a value to be assigned to undefined. However, by some reason, we want to put undefined and do something like:
`usuario.nome = undefined as any`, it will work and the test will also pass — We were able to hack because type casting
is basically us saying to typescript that we know better than him, in most cases is for the best, but with no correct
validation, this is something that could end up happening

## Lesson 4 - Anemic User #03

The scenario that will address in this lesson, is a common scenario to many developers

We first start by modifying the version 2, where every attribute was public, to private

Create getters and setters for each private attribute. For this first test, we are not going to utilize the modern syntax
of js, like defining an attribute with underline and the get method is simply get nome() {return this._nome}, this example
will be "old-fashioned"

### Tests
We will notice that when modifying from the V2 to the V3, we will notice that several errors will now appear, since the
attributes are no longer public, but private, and their updates happen "within" the class. So we now longer can, for example
, simply utilize `usuario.nome = ""`

And we also will need to utilize the getters to access the attribute value for the expect

We can notice that nothing changed on the validation, the syntax has changed, but it continues to be an anemic modeling.
We have only changed public attributes for getters and setters method.
 
## Lesson 5 - Validate Password

We start by applying password rules to UsuarioAnemicoV3.

Inside setSenha, add a check to ensure the password length is greater than 6 (this will make the existing test fail).

**Tests should always be as explicit as possible.** 

Some scenarios, like invalid passwords, could also have other issues happening at the same time, such as name, email, or
other rule violations. If we throw an exception at the first error, the flow keeps breaking one step at a time as the user
fixes each issue. 

What bothers the instructor most is having implicit behavior, something happening that isn’t clear to whoever reads or
uses the code.
Let's say that we have a password setter and inside the constructor, after receiving the parameters, we call setParameter(value)
and that setParameter, may have a validation already happening, and  if we try creating an object with an invalid password
and that password is not null/undefined, since it is optional, the code will call the setSenha, apply the validation of larger
than 6.

There are other scenarios where a rule depend on other rule, for example, assume that every gmail e-mails are required to
have an empty password because the access will be made after login with google. If it is an email different, the password
is required to be filled. In this case, where a validation depends on two attributes, if we add this validation inside the
setter, it will start being too complicated, because we may still be on the process of setting the attributes and we will
break the flow because we set a password before setting the e-mail



### Erros constant

We defined a constant "Erros" equal to:

  ```ts
  const Erros = {
      SENHA_INVALIDA: "SENHA_INVALIDA"
  } as const;
  ```

  `as const` "freezes" the value, it transforms an object (or array) in a literal immutable type, so in this case

  Without as const the typescript infers the type as SENHA_INVALIDA: string, which means that it is a generic string type
  e not the "SENHA_INVALIDA" literal itself

  With as const the type of SENHA_INVALIDA HAVE TO be "SENHA_INVALIDA" 
  
  And now, when throwing an error, we can simply throw Erros.SENHA_INVALIDA and the error will be thrown with that content

Commit message:

chore: Up to start validation

architect/Software Design/domain-modeling/2-anemic-model.md, after:

## Lesson 1 - Anemic User #01

We will start by creating a src/core folder and a test/core to maintain a "mirror" of the src structure inside the tests.
This will easy to test each one of one of our tests. Even though some examples may not have much to test, we will create
tests to expose fragilities of our choices when we are, for example, going after an anemic model.

We are going to create multiple versions of an anemic class, so we can see how it may evolve

### UsuarioAnemicoV1

Is very common for us to find inside libraries/frameworks documentation, an anemic modeling. Not because this is an adequate
pattern, but simply because who is writing that tutorial, has the objective of showing something else other than a rich
modeling for the examples.

We will start by defining a simple interface, with primitive types, and the only validation this code has is the types
requirements. 

And when we focus on the domain modeling, and looking after the problem we are solving, we will understand that every company
has a domain of action, clients, market, business, way of proceeding inside that business, and this is the domain, so when
we model the domain, we want to be specific and not generalist, we don't want a name attribute to simply be a string, it
should have some criteria inside the business we are working with, for more common or similar to other cases, that these
objects may be. It is certain that there will exist specific rules for that business. So when we think of creating a modeling,
we think of solving a **specific** problem of a **specific** business.

Even though in practice we don't test interfaces, here we are going to, because that mentality of testing everything is
fundamental, it is important to have inside the domain model, to have this testing culture.

With these tests we have two intentions: Other than the importance of the testing culture, they will be created in order
to expose the fragilities, after the tests, that this anemic modeling may generate.

### UsuarioAnemicoV1

After that interface was created, we will create a test for this interface

Create a `usuario` object, with all the required values.

We will first notice that even though we didn't implement any validation, that ts will give us basic errors that the
type returns, such as id not being a number, a nome being a number, and so on.

## Lesson 2 - Testing Usuario Anemico V1

We will define a usuarioValido constant with all the required properties from its interface

1. First test, will be to create a usuario by spreading all the properties from the usuarioValido, but modifying its name
to be '', and after expecting usuario.nome to be an empty string, we are able to see that this model allowed an empty `nome``

2. Second test is going to be similar to the first one, but changing the id to be negative

3. Invalid e-mail — without `at`, domain, username

4. Senha to be a single character where the business we are dealing with  requires a strong eight characters long password


Therefore, these tests were able to show in how much trouble we can get by choosing this approach. By modeling in a "poor",
"anemic" manner, with no kind of guarantee of data consistency, this means that we will have to do this in every part of
the system where a `Usuario` is used. This will make the usuario to inconsistent, and everywhere we will have to validate it
and apply the rules.

Instead of this, we could do everything in a single place what we would end up having to do in multiple different places.

With the first version, we already exposed many flaws of this model.

## Lesson 3 - Anemic User #02

The UsuarioAnemicoV2 will be a class and in its tests we are able to see that we even after creating a valid user, we are
still able to modify the attributes with invalid values such as `usuario.id = -300`.

We can also "workaround" the interface, because let's assume this scenario

We want to allow an user with undefined name. But the way we defined our interface, with required attributes, we don't
allow a value to be assigned to undefined. However, by some reason, we want to put undefined and do something like:
`usuario.nome = undefined as any`, it will work and the test will also pass — We were able to hack because type casting
is basically us saying to typescript that we know better than him, in most cases is for the best, but with no correct
validation, this is something that could end up happening

## Lesson 4 - Anemic User #03

The scenario that will address in this lesson, is a common scenario to many developers

We first start by modifying the version 2, where every attribute was public, to private

Create getters and setters for each private attribute. For this first test, we are not going to utilize the modern syntax
of js, like defining an attribute with underline and the get method is simply get nome() {return this._nome}, this example
will be "old-fashioned"

### Tests
We will notice that when modifying from the V2 to the V3, we will notice that several errors will now appear, since the
attributes are no longer public, but private, and their updates happen "within" the class. So we now longer can, for example
, simply utilize `usuario.nome = ""`

And we also will need to utilize the getters to access the attribute value for the expect

We can notice that nothing changed on the validation, the syntax has changed, but it continues to be an anemic modeling.
We have only changed public attributes for getters and setters method.
 
## Lesson 5 - Validate Password

We start by applying password rules to UsuarioAnemicoV3.

Inside setSenha, add a check to ensure the password length is greater than 6 (this will make the existing test fail).

**Tests should always be as explicit as possible.** 

Some scenarios, like invalid passwords, could also have other issues happening at the same time, such as name, email, or
other rule violations. If we throw an exception at the first error, the flow keeps breaking one step at a time as the user
fixes each issue. 

What bothers the instructor most is having implicit behavior, something happening that isn’t clear to whoever reads or
uses the code.

For example, if we call setSenha inside the constructor after receiving parameters, and that setter already validates the
password length, creating an object with an invalid password will immediately trigger validation — even though the field
is optional.



There are also cases where validations depend on more than one attribute. Say every Gmail user must have an empty password
because they log in with Google, while other emails require a password. If we place this kind of logic inside the setter,
it becomes too complex, since we might still be setting other properties when the validation triggers.



### Erros constant

We defined a constant "Erros" equal to:

  ```ts
  const Erros = {
      SENHA_INVALIDA: "SENHA_INVALIDA"
  } as const;
  ```

  `as const` "freezes" the value, it transforms an object (or array) in a literal immutable type, so in this case

  Without as const the typescript infers the type as SENHA_INVALIDA: string, which means that it is a generic string type
  e not the "SENHA_INVALIDA" literal itself

  With as const the type of SENHA_INVALIDA HAVE TO be "SENHA_INVALIDA" 
  
  And now, when throwing an error, we can simply throw Erros.SENHA_INVALIDA and the error will be thrown with that content
